# Final-Project

In this project, we focused on analyzing the the capability of machine (Amazon Rekognition) to read emotions will be affected with facial coverings. We also investigated to what extend the capability will be affected. Wearing face masks is one of the essential means to prevent the transmission of certain respiratory diseases such as COVID-19. Although acceptance of such masks is increasing in the Western hemisphere, many people feel that social interaction is affected by wearing a mask. From my sociology class, I have read an article titled “[Wearing Face Masks Strongly Confuses Counterparts in Reading Emotions.](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2020.566886)” written by  Claus-Christian Carbon, and I learned that the existence of a mask affects emotional reading, as evidenced by reduced accuracy and trust in one's own judgment of the revealed emotions. We often have a hard time deciphering people' feelings through their limited facial expression wearing masks, as seen in the article and in our daily lives.

If you are interested in replicating our project, please take a look at this link, where we thoroughly explained our motivation, data extraction, data analysis, and data visualization processes.

In this repository, we have uploaded the csv file of our dataset, the architecture of the functions we have used, the jupyter notebook for the comprehensive data analysis and visualization are all uploaded here. If are you interested in learning more about our data input, we have attached a link to the google drive where you can check out our pictures. https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1D2B-sbmlOIGCXP6gtHplSc9brGqKv9Nw?usp=sharing
